= pcut

* http://github.com/bonar/pcut

== DESCRIPTION:

Yet another cutting tool.
pcut adds some features to cut command.

=== append field number, vertical print

Check field number before cutting.
when you have log line like this:

  $ cat test 
  127.0.0.1 - frank [10/Oct/2000:13:55:36 -0700] "GET /apache_pb.gif HTTP/1.0" 200 2326 "http://www.example.com/start.html" "Mozilla/4.08 [en] (Win98; I ;Nav)"

You can cut line and get field number with --preview(-p).
It helps you to specify field number with -f option.

  $ cat test | pcut -d " " --preview
  [1]127.0.0.1 [2]- [3]frank [4][10/Oct/2000:13:55:36 [5]-0700] [6]"GET [7]/apache_pb.gif [8]HTTP/1.0" [9]200 [10]2326 [11]"http://www.example.com/start.html" [12]"Mozilla/4.08 [13][en] [14](Win98; [15]I [16];Nav)"

With --vertical(-v), cut results are joined by LF.

  $ cat test | pcut -d " " --preview --vertical
  [1]127.0.0.1
  [2]-
  [3]frank
  [4][10/Oct/2000:13:55:36
  [5]-0700]
  [6]"GET
  [7]/apache_pb.gif
  [8]HTTP/1.0"
  [9]200
  [10]2326
  [11]"http://www.example.com/start.html"
  [12]"Mozilla/4.08
  [13][en]
  [14](Win98;
  [15]I
  [16];Nav)"

=== quoting

With -q option, pcut keep quoted strings as one field.
This function is usefull on logs like apache access log. Those logs
are likely to contain free text (path, user agent) and it may contains
cut delimiter.

-q specified quoting chars. 

  $ cat test | pcut -d " " --preview --vertical -q "DS["
  [1]127.0.0.1
  [2]-[3]frank
  [4]10/Oct/2000:13:55:36 -0700
  [5]GET /apache_pb.gif HTTP/1.0
  [6]200[7]2326
  [8]http://www.example.com/start.html
  [9]Mozilla/4.08 [en] (Win98; I ;Nav)

D="dounble quote", S="single quote", [="[]", (="()"
You can set multiple chars to quote.

=== sub queries

You can get partial string by cutting the cut result again
with original syntax [/#{delimiter}/, #{index}].
This is useful for getting platform from UserAgent, or getting file extention
string from PATH.

  $ cat test | pcut -d " " --preview --vertical -q "D[" -k -f "4, 5"
  [4][10/Oct/2000:13:55:36 -0700]
  [5]"GET /apache_pb.gif HTTP/1.0"
  
  $ cat test | pcut -d " " --preview --vertical -q "D[" -k -f "4, 5.[/ /,2]"
  [4][10/Oct/2000:13:55:36 -0700]
  [5.[/ /,2]]/apache_pb.gif
  
  $ cat test | pcut -d " " --preview --vertical -q "D[" -k -f "4, 5.[/ /,2].[/./,2]"
  [4][10/Oct/2000:13:55:36 -0700]
  [5.[/ /,2].[/./,2]]gif
  
  $ cat test | pcut -d " " -q "D[" -k -f "4, 5.[/ /,2].[/./,2]"
  [10/Oct/2000:13:55:36 -0700] gif

== SYNOPSIS:

see pcut --help

== REQUIREMENTS:

term-ansicolor

== INSTALL:

sudo gem install pcut

== LICENSE:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2012 Nakano Kyohei

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
